we originally weren't going to review
this card after the yes didn't cute pat
review which actually involves the
custom molded shroud we looked at this
one and what well it's just a video card
with some anime character painted on it
that's not interesting at least that's
what we thought until so many of you
expressed interest in seeing waifu's via
our comment section and Twitter so we
bought this we received this a couple
weeks ago but only got to reviewing it
today this is the yest and rx 5700 XT
Hawaii few edition yes and it's a three
fan 5700 XT with a floral pink shroud
and a waifu on the back which seems like
it'll definitely find a market price
that between $500 and $700 depending on
which china based seller you use and how
much they gouge you it's one of the more
expensive 5700 xt models for someone in
the u.s. to import we'll see if it's any
good today before that this video is
brought to you by the gigabyte z 390 ARS
master motherboard which comes equipped
with one of the more powerful z 390 VRMs
for heavier overclock the ARS master is
also one of the few motherboards with a
really heatsink this generation
featuring a mix of high surface area
fins and looks oriented hover blocks oh
and it's also got updated RGV
illumination learn more at the link
below
the wife who may not be thick but it is
a three fan standard design that tries
to maximize on the height while keeping
the width to a somewhat standard sizing
so our goal today is to determine
whether the wife who is hot and we're
going to be doing that with a bunch of
testing like always we were benchmarking
the yest in the RX 5700 xt waifu for
thermal noise frequency behavior of
course versus all the other 5700 xt
cards we've tested which includes a lot
of really high on ones a lot of not
great ones one meme card and a few
things in between so there's a lot to
test against we've got a full stack of
57 or xt s we're looking at GPU thermals
gt-r 6 there almost so forth the yes 10
RX 580 2048 SP it's it's a 570 it's just
got a stupid name that AMD made but the
2048 580 biased and was the cute pet we
actually really liked this card for
reasons that weren't particularly
related to the GPU it wasn't good value
for the most part
it's a GP that shouldn't really exist
but does in the China market so whatever
but the thing we liked about it was that
it did something actually different and
that was completely custom molding a
shroud to look like a cat or something
its name is Wan WAN and everybody loves
it
so that was really interesting for this
card it had an aesthetic that was
different and we don't really talk about
visuals very much because there's
nothing to talk about all of the video
cards look the same they're all gamer
that's the theme for video cards and at
least in the Western market but yes
Tintin to its credit does try to do
different things this one's got less of
a an interesting shroud because it's
just it's just a shroud that's pink and
it's got some holes shaped like flowers
it's not that special the back of its
just a painted backplate which we've
seen before and isn't particularly
interesting although for the right
audience it probably is very interesting
and we're just trying to see if it's
actually any good so prices will vary on
this Taobao it looks like it tends to be
about $500 Aliexpress which is where we
bought it because everyone else was out
of stock when we ordered ours Aliexpress
we paid 700 USD which is an absolute
ripoff don't do that the only reason we
can do that is because we're making
money off of the video so we can justify
it but you 100% should never do that if
you're a consumer cuz it's still a 5700
XT so anyway we've got some testing
let's go through it and see how the rx
5700 XT waifu does and if it ends up on
top let's get into the thermals of this
card will start with noise normalized
thermals at 40 DBA which allows us to
determine the efficiency of a cooler and
they like for like environment rather
than just brute forcing it from the fans
we also have power budget listed as this
influences they're almost further so we
have good news and bad news the wife who
is hot too hot she's running about
ninety nine degrees Celsius for GP a
junction temperature which is the worst
we've yet measured that said judging by
a lot of the comments from you all when
requesting the review of this card our
understanding is that wife is are
supposed to be hot we're not really sure
why you'd want that but it appears that
the wish has been granted
so that's the good news anyway with the
rxd 700 xt wife who running a junction
temperature of 99 degrees it's
technically
t.j.maxx by about 11 degrees Celsius but
a hot case accompanying the hot waifu
would rapidly approach t.j.maxx and
exhibit clock drops this cooler is the
least efficient of all the ones we've
tested ignoring the reference card and
that's including the waifu's thick
counterpart by XFX given that the wife
you can't beat the thick we must look
next to edge temperature for the cards
the wifey's edge temperature measures at
about 77 degrees Celsius again setting
it among the hottest partner models so
far the only card doing worse than the
waifu is the reference card for point of
reference the best performer we saw was
similar in power budget and that would
be the power color red devil at 220
watts which is 10 watts more than the
power budget of the waifu but 20 degrees
cooler in junction temperature that's an
efficient design by comparison
we must next look to GD dr6 thermals
when noise normalized after which point
we can open up the waifu for inspection
GD r 6 thermals with the 210 watt power
budget measured at 88 degrees Celsius
showing that the thick is now on top of
the waifu thermals the 88 degree results
puts the waifu between the worst models
where it bests only the inferior
reference design and original prefix msi
a VOC design when normalized to 40 DBA
the delta between the yest and card and
the reference card is still wide at 10
degrees celsius but the waifu card makes
us uncomfortable and we believe it would
be enough to encroach upon unsafety ddr
6 thermals if in a sufficiently warm
operating environment high room or case
ambient temperature could push it in
that direction pretty quickly the
waifu's mosfet thermals are on the warm
side and showing less efficient than
competing cards but overall within spec
and technically fine it's at 87 degrees
for the VR i'm moss temperature that's
unimpressive and comparatively weak but
also not near maximum fat temperatures
so we're fine it's probably time to take
a closer look at the waifu externally
the card has an older fan layout and
spacing that's recently regained
popularity it's running to 90 millimeter
fans for the outer - then a smaller
essential fan at about 70 73 millimeters
sapphire also does this on its nitro
which is a recent card and one of the
best performers this design is used to
maximize the vertical clearance afforded
by
or PCBs but to also minimize the
horizontal length of the card as for the
front floral perforations line the pink
shroud but these are there for looks and
don't provide any meaningful thermal
change the top of the shroud uses a
whole lot of plastic which like the
axe-fx thick is responsible for some of
the heat traffic that we see in testing
there's also no thermal pad between the
back plate and the back of the PCB which
is unfortunate because the gap isn't
that big and it is a metal backplate so
you could sink some more heat into it
and in testing the MSI evoke changes we
saw that it actually did help maybe the
plastic is used to host the full
accompaniment of RGB LEDs which can be
toggled with a switch if you don't want
them for some reason it's also one of
the many smaller PCBs for LED placement
across the board the shroud has a few
custom cut PCBs thought in its underside
there's actually about three or four of
them that are easily visible without
even pulling the whole card apart so
that adds to the cost but also accounts
for the RGB LED setup that the waifu
card is running the wafer is only
screwed in by the usual for GPU screws
and retention kit accompanying them and
then for additional backplate screws
that go into the cooler
we're immediately greeted with a non
verbal red circle with a red line
through it on the backside and because
we have no idea what that could possibly
mean we assume it probably doesn't apply
to us the GPU paste job is one of the
worst we've ever seen on a production
video card but at least the whole die is
covered to be fair it's just that the
mount is uneven and likely contributing
to the large Junction deltas versus the
edge temperature the amount of paste
isn't really the issue as much as
mounting pressure distribution is for
this card past this we noticed next that
the mosfet thermal pad had a black mark
on it which doesn't really matter
thermally probably but this is from the
Sharpie marks that are on the underlying
MOSFETs we're not really sure why any of
the MOSFETs would have writing on them
it looks like a number two probably QC
at the factory or something but it did
transfer to the thermal pads that's just
not something we've really seen before
although it shouldn't matter too much in
theory the memory is micron on this
specific card although supply may change
from card to card so we don't know if
yours might be Samsung if you buy it
coin of the memory is handled via a
nickel plated copper cold plate which is
standard but effective as a solution and
some lower enthalpy
they're sandwiched between the memory
and the cold plate the GPU is cooled by
a copper cold plate as a standard as
well without any nickel plating for this
one
as for the vrm there's an aluminum plate
contacting the MOSFETs and welded to the
bottom of the fin stack for the PCB
components the card is using a standard
international rectifier three five to
one seven controller on the backside
with si si six to zero a integrated
power stages for the vcore VR app time
to look at Auto thermals for the yest
and card allows us to help regulate its
fan speeds the card sticks to around
2500 rpm rather than the 40 DB a mark of
about 15 60 rpm at this much louder of a
speed we're closer to 51 DBA which is
about on par with the reference to the
700 xt stock speeds
you know while operating louder than
every other card on this chart the waifu
still isn't on top it's at 86 degrees
Junction putting it as about the same as
the original msi of oak or 5700 XD poles
which the xt pulse is a good card but
it's also not that expensive this also
has the Wi-Fi card worse than the thick
which runs louder than most other cards
here but quieter than the waifu GDD our
six thermals under Auto settings allow
the Wi-Fi to switch positions now
roughly equal with the red devil at 73
to 74 degrees with the 51 DBA fan noise
from the waifu being the worst aspect of
it
vrm thermals are also good but it really
is loud under this full auto
configuration being about as loud as the
reference car it is a feat for a stock
fan speeds and not something to really
be proud of for any partner model here's
a chart showing the RPM the thermal
response when set to auto allowing v
bios to control the waifu fans and this
chart thermals rocket to about 86
degrees Junction right away with the fan
jumping to 2500 rpm and holding steady
once the target temperature is met
target temperature seems to be about 64
degrees edge but the delta between edge
in Junction is what's allowing the card
to run poorly overall here's a very
zoomed in frequency plot next resuming
it to 1850 mega Hertz to 20 40 mega
Hertz as the range to better show the
differences in the clocks but we'll keep
it simple for for the comparison overall
yes 10 waifu RX the 700 xt ends up at
about 19 40 megahertz on average which
places it between the XFX thick on it so
cv bios
and the power color red devil also on it
so CV BIOS it's not particularly low or
high for this test it's just sort of in
the middle of a bunch of other cards and
here's a quick plot for the noise - rpm
response for the s10 5700 XT the card
ends up with a baseline of about 37
points 7 DBA at 1300 RPM or 28% pwm on
this unit which is mostly comprised of
the wife who's screaming coil whine the
coil whine is really bad at lower load
levels with the lower fan RPMs but this
is drowned out later closer to about
1600 rpm at which point we're
approaching 40 point 5 DBA or so the
card maintains a fairly linear noise
progression through the end of its range
maxing out at about 3200 rpm and 61 DBA
auto speeds stick closer to 51 to 53 DBA
depending on the temperatures that v
bios is monitoring conclusions then the
card really is not worth it to be frank
it's at $500 it's not worth it at $700
it's worth it for us and nobody else
unless you are making money off of the
content somehow so the card is just it's
strictly not good the cooler is not
efficient it has all the same problems
of the XFX thick which is namely that
it's got a big plastic shroud
overhanging part of the the most
critical part of the thin stack the fins
are oriented up to down on this
orientation of the video card and
there's a top layer fins sort of a
bottom layer of fins the top layer fins
spits air right into that shroud and
that's trapping a lot of heat so with
the XFX thick we found that removing the
shroud had the biggest impact the
biggest improvement in performance since
all XFX had to do to really fix a lot of
its card issues and the same would be
true here there's no point in us really
spending 40 hours on proving that this
time it's just that's the way it is so
anyway it's interesting from the
standpoint that it's different it's not
quite as interesting to us as the 580
cute patch face it the other way we'll
get to you monetized and the the cute
pet was just kind of fun it's a lot
cheaper it's like I don't know what we
paid for it anymore it's in the video
but it starts at like 160 180
if you go to the right sellers we pay it
I think to something I don't remember
but anyway that's a lot more interesting
to us it's I can't even say it's fine
because it's not it just straight has
some of the worst thermals we've tested
it has one of the least efficient
designs we've tested for GTR six
thermostats for with GPU whatever you
want you name it it's not great and even
when we allow it to run how it wants to
with the fans blasting compared to
everyone else it's all relative here
right if it's relatively worse than the
next best card why or even the next
worst card or even the worst card why
would you buy it but yeah it's if you
really like waifu's and anime maybe but
I don't you can't I'm sure someone makes
these I'm positive if you get a custom
shroud painted for a good card or
backplate I should say the shroud you'll
have more trouble with anyway if you
extremely extremely like the visuals of
it well you're not going to find this
anywhere else so I guess buy it if
that's really what matters to you and
I'm not sure who our audience is at this
point I'm not going to ask because I
don't want to know but anyway that's it
it was kind of a fun card to look at
that was phrased poorly it was kind of a
fun card to test and that's about it so
anyway thanks for watching I think
probably the weakest points are the
throne pads the throne faced the shroud
design well most of it are the weak
points that's all it's all the weak
points subscribe for more go to store
die cameras access net topside directly
if you want to see more content like
this we did film the RX 580 cute pet
review you'll probably like that one go
google gamers Nexus 580 cute pet and
you'll find it otherwise patreon.com
slash gamers access for some behind the
scenes videos or you can go to the store
and pick up a mod matte toolkit or some
of our shirts and I will see you all
next time
[Music]